## Enhancement Two: Algorithms and Data Structures
To demonstrate my skills and abilities in the Algorithms and Data Structure category, I chose to enhance final project one from my IT 145: Foundation in Application Development course. This artifact was originally created in September of 2019. For the IT 145 project, I started developing an application for a fictional pet boarding and grooming business called Pet BAG. I was given a system specification document that outlined the business's software requirements and instructed to complete some preliminary work. The business required software that allowed them to check-in pets, check-out pets, and manage pets. I created classes for the application written in Java, and a summary report with pseudocode and a flowchart for the check-in method. During the previous enhancement category, Software Design/Engineering, I re-created the Pet BAG application’s classes in the C++ programming language and continued developing the application in C++. I added the check-in and check-out methods and added code to validate user input and handle possible errors.

I chose to include this artifact in my ePortfolio because it demonstrates my ability to use data structures and algorithms to solve problems. The main features Pet BAG requested for their software were check-in pets, check-out pets, and manage pets. Implementing these features requires ways to store pet data. Data structures provide a way to store and organize data on a computer for efficient access and modification. Vectors are data structures that store items of a given data type as a dynamic list, meaning the list of items in a vector can shrink and grow as items are removed and added. In the Pet BAG application, I used vectors to store Pet BAG’s pet data. Pet BAG collects various types of data for each pet they service. Since vectors can only store items of the same data type, I created vectors of class objects. A class is a user-defined data type that can group various data attributes to form an object. Creating vectors of class objects allows each vector element in the Pet BAG application to hold various data attributes as a single object unit. Implementing Pet BAG’s requested features also requires ways to retrieve a specified pet’s data. Search algorithms are used to retrieve information stored in data structures. When given a search key, a search algorithm returns the first element in the data structure whose data matches the search key. In the Pet BAG application, I used the standard library find_if search algorithm to retrieve a specific pet’s data using the pet owner’s phone number. I also used the standard library find_if search algorithm to retrieve a specific pet’s data using the pet’s boarding space number. The find_if algorithm may require searching all vector elements. When used to search large vectors, this can lead to long runtimes. However, due to the business’ limited number of dog and cat boarding spaces, the object vectors used in Pet BAG’s application will not be large. 

My enhancements for the Algorithms and Data Structure category include adding a vector for Pet objects, a vector for Dog objects, a vector for Cat objects, classes to manage each vector, and algorithms for finding specific elements in each vector. I also expanded the complexity of the application by adding methods for managing pet records, which include updating reservation information and canceling reservations. Adding a vector for Pet objects improves the application by providing a way to store pet visitor data. Adding a vector for Dog objects improves the application by providing a way to store dog reservation data. Adding a vector for Cat objects improves the application by providing a way to store cat reservation data. Adding classes to manage each vector improves the application by making code in the main function shorter and clearer. Adding methods for managing pet records improves the application by fulfilling one of the needs listed in Pet BAG’s system requirements. Adding the ability to update reservation information improves the application by providing a way to modify pet reservation data such as boarding space numbers, notes, length of stay, weight, and grooming requirements. Adding the ability to cancel a reservation improves the application by providing a way to remove cat or dog reservation data from their respective vectors when a boarding reservation is canceled. 

The course outcome I had planned to meet with this enhancement was, “Design and evaluate computing solutions that solve a given problem using algorithmic principles and computer science practices and standards appropriate to its solution, while managing the trade-offs involved in design choices.”  I believe that I have met this outcome by designing software solutions that solve the problem of storing, retrieving, and updating Pet BAG’s pet data using vectors of class objects and the C++ Standard Library find_if search algorithm. 

During the process of enhancing the Pet BAG application, I learned more about working with C++ Standard Library algorithm functions. Before working on these enhancements, I would often write custom loops for searching data structures. While researching ways to find specific elements in a vector of objects, I discovered standard library algorithm functions, like find and find_if. Using standard library functions like these allow common operations like searching, counting, and sorting to be achieved in fewer lines of code. I also learned about ways to remove elements from a vector. I had plenty of experience in adding elements to vectors, but none in removing elements from vectors. In fact, the biggest challenge I faced during the process of enhancing this artifact was deciding the best way to go about removing specific elements from the vectors of class objects I created. I settled on using find_if to find the iterator to a specific object in the vector, and then passing it to the standard vector erase function to remove it. 

### Link to code repository 
[Pet BAG Application Code](https://github.com/aerielj/petbagapplication)


### ePortfolio Links
- [Professional Self-Assessment](https://aerielj.github.io/index.html)
- [Software Design and Engineering Enhancement](https://aerielj.github.io/SoftwareDesignAndEngineering.html)
- [Databases Enhancement](https://aerielj.github.io/DatabasesEnhancement.html)
