## Enhancement Three: Databases
To demonstrate my skills and abilities in the Databases category, I chose to enhance the final project from my CS 360: Mobile Architecture and Programming course. For the CS 360 final project, I developed a mobile application for tracking inventory items. The Inventory App I developed allows users to create a login, log in and log out, store a list of inventory items, see their list inventory of items, add and remove items from their inventory list, and increase or decrease the number of specific items in their inventory. The app has a database for storing inventory items and a database for storing user logins and passwords. This artifact was originally created in February of 2021.

I chose to include this artifact in my ePortfolio because it showcases my ability to develop mobile applications using Android Studio. I am targeting to specialize in application development, so I wanted to show my experience developing a mobile application. The Inventory App demonstrates my ability to work with SQLite databases, and my skills in identifying common security vulnerabilities and writing secure code to mitigate risks to software and data. Android comes with built in SQLite database implementation. SQLite is an open-source relational database used for storing, manipulating, and accessing data. In the Inventory App, I created an Item SQLite database for inventory item data and a Users SQLite database for user login and password data. I created each SQLite database by creating a class that extends the abstract class SQLiteOpenHelper and defining the onCreate() and onUpgrade() methods. In the ItemDatabase class file, I created the addItem(), updateItem(), and deleteItem() functions for manipulating the Item database’s data and the getItems() function for accessing the Item database’s data. In the UserDatabase class file, I created the addUser() function for adding data to the User database and the checkUser() function for accessing username and login data in the User database. 

Security vulnerabilities are weaknesses in a program that could be exploited by an attacker to access or perform unauthorized actions on a system. Vulnerabilities can open the door for attackers to access a system's memory, run code, install malware, and steal, destroy or modify data. Writing secure code is important because it can help prevent, detect, and eliminate errors that could compromise software security. One of the most common database security vulnerabilities is SQL injection. A SQL injection vulnerability allows attackers to interfere with queries made to a database. A SQL injection attack occurs when a malicious user inputs words or special characters that can trigger commands or actions in the database. Prior to enhancement, the SQLite database used to store usernames and passwords in the Inventory App did not contain any security against SQL injection. This left the application vulnerable to SQL injection attacks. According to the SEI CERT Oracle Coding Standards for Java, “The primary means of preventing SQL injection are sanitization and validation, which are typically implemented as parameterized queries and stored procedures” (Mohindra, 2021, para. 1). To fix the SQL injection vulnerability in the Inventory App, I changed the checkUser() function in the UserDatabase class file to use a parametric query with a ? character as a placeholder for the username argument and password argument. I also added the android::maxLength attribute to the username edit text and password edit text. The android::maxLength attribute constrains the text input in an edit text to a specified length. Constraining the text length in the username and password edit texts provides another layer of protection against potential SQL injections by preventing username and password input that is too long to be a valid query. 

My enhancements for the Databases category include changing the checkUser() function in the UserDatabase class file to use a parametric query and adding code that constrains the length of the text input allowed in the username edit text and password edit text. Changing the checkUser() function in the UserDatabase class file to use a parametric query improves the application by providing protection against SQL injection attacks. Adding code that constrains the length of the text input allowed in the username and password edit texts improves the application by providing another layer of protection against SQL injection attacks. 

The course outcome I had planned to meet with this enhancement was, “Develop a security mindset that anticipates adversarial exploits in software architecture and designs to expose potential vulnerabilities, mitigate design flaws, and ensure privacy and enhanced security of data and resources.”  I believe that I have met this outcome by looking at the Inventory App’s code from a security standpoint, identifying a SQL injection vulnerability, and enhancing the security of the apps data by changing its code to protect against potential SQL injection attacks. 

While creating the Inventory App, I learned how to apply user-centered design principles and industry standards to develop mobile applications. I learned how to identify the characteristics and goals of users, how to design screens and navigation mechanisms with users in mind, and how to create designs that meet the Android Design and Quality Guidelines. The biggest challenge I faced while developing the Inventory App was figuring out how to develop the code for the navigation drawer. Midway through development, I learned that the easiest way to add a navigation drawer was by using fragments. However, I had already created activities for each of my screens. If I wanted to implement the navigation drawer using fragments, I would have had to start over. So, I searched for a different way and found the ActionBarDrawerToggle class. With this class, I was able to figure out how to make the navigation drawer work with activities instead of fragments. During the process of enhancing the Inventory App, I learned how to apply secure code practices in Java. I recently completed the CS: 405 Secure Coding course where I learned secure coding practices and how to identify common security vulnerabilities like SQL injection. However, the code we studied and worked with in the course was written in the C++ programming language. While enhancing the Inventory App to protect it against SQL injection, I learned how to use the secure coding practices that I learned in CS 405 while working with the Java programming language. 

<p align="center">
  Reference
 </p>
 Mohindra, D. (2021, August 6). IDS00-J. Prevent SQL injection. SEI CERT Oracle Coding Standard for Java - Confluence. https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/display/java/IDS00-J.+Prevent+SQL+injection.

### Link to code repository
[Inventory App Code](https://github.com/aerielj/inventoryapp)


### ePortfolio Links
- [Professional Self-Assessment](https://aerielj.github.io/index.html)
- [Code Review](https://aerielj.github.io/CodeReview.html)
- [Software Design and Engineering Enhancement](https://aerielj.github.io/SoftwareDesignAndEngineering.html)
- [Algorithms and Data Structures Enhancement](https://aerielj.github.io/AlgorithmsAndDataStructures.html)
