## Aeriel J's ePortfolio


### Introduction
I have been in the Computer Science program at Southern New Hampshire University since October 2018. I am now in the process of completing my final course, CS 499 Computer Science Capstone, and obtaining a bachelor’s degree in Computer Science. My career goal is to become a software developer. In addition to earning my bachelor’s degree in Computer Science, I plan to support this goal by gaining experience through an internship or entry-level developer job and obtaining certifications to boost my credentials. I am targeting to specialize in application development, but I am also interested in security development. I have created this ePortfolio to showcase the skills and knowledge I have obtained throughout the Computer Science program and demonstrate my strengths in the computer science field.

### Professional Self-Assessment
Throughout my time in Southern New Hampshire University’s Computer Science program, I have learned many techniques, practices, languages, and concepts relevant to computer science career fields. During the IT 315: Object-Oriented Analysis and Design course, I developed skills in software architecture and design. I practiced designing software systems using object-orientation and Unified Modeling Language (UML) modeling. I learned how to create use case diagrams, use case descriptions, CRC cards, and UML class diagrams from requirement definition documents. In the CS 310: Collaboration and Team Projects course, I practiced utilizing industry-standard version control tools to manage the development of software projects. I also gained experience in collaborating on team-based development projects. During CS 320: Software Testing, Automation, and Quality Assurance, I learned software engineering testing strategies and practices. I practiced requirements analysis, verification and validation, and quality management. I also learned how to create unit tests to uncover errors within software. During CS 405: Secure Coding, I learned techniques and strategies for developing secure code. I gained experience in identifying common security vulnerabilities, including buffer overflow, numeric overflow, improper input validation, inadequate encryption, and SQL injection. I also practiced writing secure code and modifying code to mitigate risks to software and data. 

During CS: 200 Computer Science’s Role in Technology, I got a chance to explore careers and topics in computer science. After taking CS: 200, I decided I wanted to become a software developer. According to Computer Science.org, “Software developers conceive of, design, and build computer programs” (“Software Developer,” 2021). They require skills in programming languages, communication, teamwork, and problem-solving (“Software Developer,” 2021). I have acquired skills in several different programming languages throughout my time in the Computer Science program. I have worked with Python, Java, C++, SQL, and Assembly Language. During CS: 210 Programming Languages, I practiced combining C++ and Python and reading from and writing to files in C++ and Python. I have also acquired communication, teamwork, and problem-solving skills. During the CS:250 Software Development Lifecycle course, I took on various roles in an agile development environment. I got the chance to practice communicating with end-users, colleagues, managers, and employees in other departments. I also practiced working as a team to plan and develop projects. In the CS: 260 Data Structures and Algorithms course, I practiced using data structures and algorithms to solve problems. I gained experience in applying appropriate data structures to effectively organize data and implementing technically sound algorithms to perform required functions.

Developing this ePortfolio has given me the chance to showcase my computer science knowledge, skills, and abilities. My ePortfolio contains two artifacts that demonstrate my skills and abilities in three key categories: Software Design and Engineering, Algorithms and Data Structures, and Databases. The first artifact demonstrates skills in both the Software Design and Engineering category and the Algorithms and Data structures category. The second artifact demonstrates skills in Databases. 

The first artifact I have included in my ePortfolio is final project one from my IT 145: Foundation in Application Development course. For IT 145 final project one, I started designing and developing custom software for a fictional pet boarding and grooming business called Pet BAG. Pre-enhancement, this artifact consisted of three classes written in Java and a summary report with pseudocode and a flowchart for one of Pet BAG’s desired functionalities. To demonstrate my skills and abilities in Software Design and Engineering, I re-created the three classes in the C++ programming language, wrote code to create the check-in pets and check-out pets functionalities, and added code to validate user input and handle possible errors. To demonstrate my skills and abilities in Algorithms and Data Structures, I added data structures to store and organize data, wrote code to create the manage pets functionality, and added algorithms to search for specific data elements in vectors. This enhanced artifact demonstrates my skills and abilities in programming languages, object-oriented design and development, using data structures and algorithms to solve problems, and writing secure code. 

The second artifact I have included in my ePortfolio is the final project from my CS 360: Mobile Architecture and Programming course. For the CS 360 final project, I developed a mobile application that helps users track inventory items. The Inventory App I created included an SQLite database for storing inventory item data and an SQLite database for storing username and password data. This artifact was developed in Android Studio using the Java programming language. Pre-enhancement, the SQLite database used to store usernames and password data contained an SQL injection vulnerability. To demonstrate my skills and abilities in Databases, I modified the Inventory App’s code to protect against potential SQL injection attacks. This enhanced artifact demonstrates my skills and abilities in developing mobile applications using Android Studio, working with SQLite databases, identifying common security vulnerabilities, and writing secure code to mitigate risks to software and data.

<p align="center">
  Reference
 </p>
 *Software Developer*. (2021, May 5). ComputerScience.org. https://www.computerscience.org/careers/software-developer/.

### ePortfolio Links
- [Informal Code Review](https://aerielj.github.io/CodeReview.html)
- [Software Design and Engineering Enhancement](https://aerielj.github.io/SoftwareDesignAndEngineering.html)
- [Algorithms and Data Structures Enhancement](https://aerielj.github.io/AlgorithmsAndDataStructures.html)
- [Databases Enhancement](https://aerielj.github.io/DatabasesEnhancement.html)

