## Enhancement One: Software Design and Engineering
To demonstrate my skills and abilities in the Software Design and Engineering category, I chose to enhance final project one from my IT 145: Foundation in Application Development course. For the IT 145 project, I started developing an application for a fictional pet boarding and grooming business called Pet BAG. I was given a system specification document that outlined the business's software requirements and instructed to complete some preliminary work. The business required software that allowed them to check-in pets, check-out pets, and manage pets. I created classes for the application written in Java, and a summary report with pseudocode and a flowchart for the check-in method. This artifact was originally created in September of 2019.

I chose to include this artifact in my ePortfolio because it demonstrates my skills in object-oriented programming and my ability to use different programming languages. Encapsulation and inheritance are principles of object-oriented programming. Encapsulation is achieved when an object’s data components are hidden from other objects and can only be viewed or modified by providing methods. In the Pet BAG application, I applied the encapsulation principle by declaring variables of the Pet, Dog, and Cat classes private and providing public setter and getter methods to modify and view variable values. Inheritance occurs when one object acquires the properties and behaviors of a parent object. In the Pet BAG application, the Pet class serves a parent class for two child classes, Dog and Cat. When creating the Dog and Cat classes, I applied the inheritance principle by deriving them from the Pet class. This allowed the characteristics and behaviors of the Pet class to be inherited by the Dog and Cat classes. I originally developed the classes for the Pet BAG application using the Java programming language. To show my ability to use multiple programming languages, I re-created the classes in the C++ programming language. For my enhancements, I continued to develop the Pet BAG application in C++. My enhancements to the artifact include adding the check-in and check-out methods and adding code to validate user input and handle possible errors. Adding the check-in and check-out methods improves the application by fulfilling more of the system requirements. Adding code to validate user input and handle possible errors improves the application by making it less prone to crashes and thus more functional and secure. 

The course outcome I had planned to meet with this enhancement was, “Demonstrate an ability to use well-founded and innovative techniques, skills, and tools in computing practices for the purpose of implementing computer solutions that deliver value and accomplish industry-specific goals.” I believe that I have met this outcome by using object-oriented programming techniques and C++ programming skills to implement solutions that deliver value to Pet BAG’s business and accomplish their goals of checking-in and checking-out pets for their boarding and grooming services.

The preliminary work I completed for the Pet BAG application in IT 145 taught me a lot about object-oriented programming principles and concepts like classes, objects, encapsulation, and inheritance. During the process of enhancing the application, I learned a lot about how to implement those principles and concepts in C++. I learned that class code is often separated into two separate files in C++. I also learned that creating classes for managing vectors of objects can help make the code in main shorter and clearer. The biggest challenge I faced during the process of enhancing this artifact was decision making. In software development, there are many different ways to accomplish the same tasks. I found myself agonizing over all of the different ways I could create the Pet BAG application’s check-in method. I spent a lot of time questioning my decisions and trying different things. This made the enhancements take longer than I anticipated. 

### Link to code repository 
[PetBAG Application code](https://github.com/aerielj/petbagapplication)

### ePortfolio Links
- [Professional Self-Assessment](https://aerielj.github.io/index.html)
- [Algorithms and Data Structures Enhancement](https://aerielj.github.io/AlgorithmsAndDataStructures.html)
- [Databases Enhancement](https://aerielj.github.io/DatabasesEnhancement.html)
